task manager 
It provides information about computer performance and running  software, including name of running processes, 
CPU and GPU load, commit charge, I/O details, logged-in users, and Windows services. 
Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities, processor affinity, start and stop services, and forcibly 
terminate processes. 
the Task List application, are capable of listing currently running processes and killing them, or creating new 
processes. 
Details tab--------------------------------- 
The Details tab is a more basic version of the Processes tab, and acts similar to the Processes tab in Windows 7 and 
earlier.  
It has a more rudimentary user experience and can perform some additional actions.  
Right-clicking a process in the list allows changing the priority the process has 
Processes tab------------------------------- 
The Processes tab shows a list of all running processes on the system. This list includes Windows Services and 
processes from other accounts. The Delete key can also be used to terminate processes on the Processes tab. By 
default, the processes tab shows the user account the process is running under, the amount of CPU, and the amount 
of memory the process is currently consuming. There are more columns that can be shown.  
The Processes tab divides the process into three categories: 
Apps: Programs with a main window 
Windows processes: Components of Windows itself that do not have a main window, including services 
Background process: Programs that do not have a main window, including services, and are not part of the Windows 
itself. 
This tab shows the name of every main window and every service associated with each process. Both a graceful exit 
command and a termination command can be sent from this tab, depending on whether the command is sent to the 
process or its window 
Performance tab----------------------------- 
The Performance tab shows overall statistics about the system's performance, most notably the overall amount of 
CPU usage and how much memory is being used. A chart of recent usage for both of these values is shown. Details 
about specific areas of memory are also shown. 
There is an option to break the CPU usage graph into two sections: kernel mode time and user mode time. Many 
device drivers, and core parts of the operating system run in kernel mode, whereas user applications run in user 
mode. This option can be turned on by choosing Show kernel times from the View menu. When this option is turned 
on the CPU usage graph will show a green and a red area. The red area is the amount of time spent in kernel mode, 
and the green area shows the amount of time spent in user mode. 
The Performance tab also shows statistics relating to each of the network adapters present in the computer. 
App history------------------------------------- 
The App history tab shows resource usage information about Universal Windows Platform apps. Windows controls 
the life cycle of these apps more tightly. This tab is where the data that Windows has collected about them, and then 
be viewed at a later time. 
Startup--------------------------------------------- 
The Startup tab manages software that starts with Windows shell. 
Users--------------------------------------- 
The Users tab shows all users that currently have a session on the computer. On server computers, there may be 
several users connected to the computer using Terminal Services. 
Weakness--------------------- 
Task Manager is a common target of computer viruses and other forms of malware; typically malware will close the 
Task Manager as soon as it is started, so as to hide itself from users. Some malware will also disable task manager as 
an administrator.  
Variants of the Zotob and Spybot worms have used this technique,for example.[15][obsolete source] Using Group 
Policy, it is possible to disable the Task Manager. Many types of malware also enable this policy setting in the 
registry.  
Rootkits can prevent themselves from getting listed in the Task Manager, thereby preventing their detection and 
termination using it. 
