Practical No. 2

Aim - study of advanced linux shell command process management, Network management and memory management

Process management :

1. $ top - Top command displays a list of processes that are running in real-time along with their memory and CPU usage.

2. $ ps - ps command is short for ‘Process Status’. It displays the currently-running processes. However, unlike the top command, the output generated is not in realtime.
PID	process ID
TTY	terminal type
TIME	total time the process has been running
CMD	name of the command that launches the process

3. $ pstree - pstree is a Linux command that shows the running processes as a tree.

4. $ kill [pid]- used to send a signal to a process, typically to terminate it. You can use it by specifying the Process ID (PID) of the process you want to terminate, like this: kill 1234


Memory management :

1. $ vmstat - The vmstat command (short for virtual memory statistics) is a built-in monitoring utility in Linux. The command is used to obtain information about memory, system processes, paging, interrupts, block I/O, disk, and CPU scheduling.
The detailed description listed below provides an explanation for each value in case you need assistance in analyzing the results.
Procs
r: number of processes waiting for run time.
b: number of processes in uninterruptible sleep.

Memory
swpd: amount of virtual memory used.
free: amount of idle memory.
buff: the amount of memory used as buffers.
cache: amount of memory used as cache.

Swap
si: memory swapped in from disk (/s).
so: memory swapped to disk (/s).

IO
bi: Blocks received from a block device (blocks/s).
bo: Blocks sent to a block device (blocks/s).

System
in: number of interrupts per second, including the clock.
cs: number of context switches per second.

CPU – These are percentages of total CPU time.
us: Time spent running non-kernel code. (user time, including nice time)
sy: Time spent running kernel code. (system time)
id: Time spent idle. Before Linux 2.5.41, this includes IO-wait time.
wa: Time spent waiting for IO. Before Linux 2.5.41, included in idle.
st: Time stolen from a virtual machine. Before Linux 2.6.11, unknown.

2. $ free - The data represents the used/available memory and the swap memory figures in kilobytes.

total		Total installed memory
used		Memory currently in use by running processes (used= total – free – buff/cache)
free		Unused memory (free= total – used – buff/cache)
shared		Memory shared by multiple processes
buffers		Memory reserved by the OS to allocate as buffers when process need them
cached		Recently used files stored in RAM
buff/cache	Buffers + Cache
available	Estimation of how much memory is available for starting new applications, without swapping.

3. $ cat /proc/meminfo - This command opens the /proc/meminfo file, which provides real-time information about memory usage, buffers, and shared memory used by the kernel.

Total installed memory: 8,848,000 KB
Used memory by running processes: 6,000,000 KB
Unused memory: 2,000,000 KB
Buffers + Cache available: 3,000,000 KB

4. $ pmap [pid] - Use the Performance Management Appraisal Program (PMAP) command to explore how a process is mapped in memory to monitor or troubleshoot memory usage.

5. $ cat - The cat command on Linux concatenates files together. It's often used to concatenate one file to nothing to print the single file's contents to the terminal. This is a quick way to preview the contents of a text file without having to open the file in a large application.

Network management :

1. $ nslookup - You can use nslookup to find the IP address associated with a domain name. For example:
$ nslookup example.com
It will return the IP address of the domain.

2. $ netstat - Netstat is a command line utility to display all the network connections on a system. It displays all the tcp, udp and unix socket connections.

3. $ traceroute [domain] -  prints the route that a packet takes to reach the host. This command is useful when you want to know about the route and about all the hops that a packet takes.

4. $ ss - The ss command (Socket Statistics) provides detailed information about network sockets. It displays active connections, listening ports, and other socket-related data.

5. $ hostname - displays the hostname

